And with that,
I think we're gonna start jumping into
how do we actually play around this?
Right?
It's the initial question is great
observables they're wonderful.
How do I get my hands on
one of these observables?
How does one make an observable?
Right?
And there is like an observable
constructor where you can hand on your
own observables but in practice, we have
a bunch of very simple utility functions.
That will produce an observable for us.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna take a look at a few of them,
kind of just on a high level,
and then we're gonna actually kind of play
around with them, get our hands dirty and
write some tests, just to kind
of see how they how they work.
So let's kind of take a brief tour, and
then we will jump in and play around.
So the first helpful utility
method is one called of right, and
of takes a series of arguments and
what it does it makes
an observable of those values.
Does right what it says on the tin, right?
The other thing to keep in mind
as we look at this first example
is you'll notice that I named
it example dollar sign right and
we put it on the end because jQuery
already owns putting on the beginning.
This you don't have to do this if you
hate this, the dollar sign doesn't mean
anything the dollar sign is just a regular
JavaScript variable it is helpful
especially in a world where you
might not have TypeScript right?
It is helpful for you and your friends to
know that this is an observable stream
that we're dealing with and
not a regular value.
Again, something like TypeScript might all
the intelligence in the world might handle
this for you, you don't necessarily
have to do it it falls under the list of
conventions that we do.
Like giving classes and constructors and
JavaScript capital letters,
all right, using dollar signs
in the beginning of like jQuery,
capitalizing react components so
on and so forth, right?
That is basically what it means
there's nothing special there,
it does not have any magic in and
of itself, it is just an indicator.
Now because it is a stream,
right, we can't just use
the observable whenever we want we
have to subscribe to it, right?
And when you subscribe to it it will then
run through the values and the observable
now, of just basically shoots them
all right at you super fast, right?
Basically synchronously they will
all fire immediately at you and
you can deal with them at that moment.
So of, is kind of, it's a utility when
we're obviously gonna build bigger and
better things.
There are things like,
maybe as click events come in.
Well, that could be an event
I want in my stream.
We might need a different helper for
that from API requests so on and so forth.
But of is the simplest one.
It takes a series of arguments and
basically shoots them all at you in
an observable incredibly quickly,
also known as synchronously.
It has a friend that's
friend is called from.
So of it's just gonna take the value
is raw, whatever arguments,
they're going in there each value so on
and so forth so far from we'll deal with
a certain set of values that it can
try to turn into an observable, right?
So arrays are good for that, right,
you just work your way through the array.
Really, anything that is, quote-unquote,
an iterable in JavaScript, so
anything that has symbol.
Iterator.
So that's basically Arrays,
generators, things like that.
It will basically work through
the values of that data structure and
send them to you.
It'll also work with promises because
that is a really great example,
it'll basically wait for
the promise to resolve.
And if the promise resolves,
then it will give you that value as well.
So anything that is not necessarily
just a regular primitive value or
just the kind of pure thing that you want
to use but you'd like to turn one data
structure into an observable from is
your buddy for doing that as well.
And you can do generator functions,
you just have to instantiate them, and
it will basically work through
all the things that it yields.
We'll kind of see that in a little bit.
Like I said, promises, once the promise
resolves, you get the value.
So from is a pretty useful tool as well
for turning other things Into observables,
all right,
let's look at the difference for a second.
From is useful whenever it's kind of like
an observable that we want to turn into
one, so that is arrays and
promises and generators.
Objects that have a subscribe method,
so like anything that we would call
observable that adheres to
the interface of an observable,
it will turn it into a real observable.
So like svelte stores, for
instance, have a subscribe method.
You can basically turn it into
an observable read through the values, so
on and so forth.
For the nodding in the room like spelt
stores are basically like what subjects
in ArcGIS so
they they play very nicely together,
there's nothing like an observable.
So, any kind of primitive value and object
that doesn't necessarily adhere to the API
contract, and
observable we're gonna use, and
just kind of shoot it through
the observable stream in this case.
Alright, so if you looked at
the previous slide, you saw that we
just gave we had subscribe, and
then we gave it a callback function.
Right?
And that was what
to do when every value happened.
But that's great.
That assumes that everything
goes right all the time, right.
And I don't know about you, but I don't
write code that does that all the time.
So, there are two ways that we can
deal with the other pieces of this.
And if this stresses you out, it should.
You can actually pass it three functions
and this is it's tricky, right?
This actual syntax is currently
deprecated but not removed but
still common enough that
we should talk about it.
It will take three functions as arguments.
The first one is what to do
when a value comes through.
The second one is what to do.
When an error comes through if
something goes wrong something throws
midway through and the third one
is what to do when it's complete.
When the stream closes and it's all done
so if you have one, two, three, four, four
is last value the observable completes and
not all observables complete, but one,
two, three, four does complete,
what you wanna do in that case, right?
The reason why the syntax
is somewhat squirrely,
is what happens if you just
wanna deal with new values and
also a completion event but
you don't care about errors.
We got like passing null in there as
a second argument right if you only care
about the completion of the observable
then it's null null your callback, gross.
So you can see that as well.
So we don't like that, it's deprecated.
It's kind of a different syntax, which is
kind of what we might see more commonly,
which is, you can give it an object.
With next error and complete.
And so in this case,
if you only care about errors,
you give it an object with error key.
If you only care about complete, you
give it an object with the complete key.
If you only care about next,
whatever, right?
Whatever combination that you care about,
you can subscribe to it and
have those callback functions called.
So the rule of thumb that we're
gonna kind of use here is if you
need an error complete event we're
gonna use the object most of the times
we only care about the next
event that comes through, right?
In that case we can just pass it
a function and move on, right?
So it only if you explicitly care
do we need that second syntax
otherwise just the regular
passing at one function of what
we wanna deal with we'll go ahead and
work for us pretty well.
All right, so we have a site
RxJS.fundamentals.netlify.app.
And in there there is a repo, and the repo
has a bunch of sample applications, and
it has some tests, and
it has everything I kinda wrote in here.
And what we're gonna do is
kind of take it for a spin and
first I am gonna kind of show us
effectively, just some of the syntax and
action so we can see it and
then you're gonna kind of take it along.
>> Are you gonna cover any integration
with frameworks or TypeScript?
>> No to TypeScript just brief mentions of
frameworks at the very end this is just
getting comfortable with
the basics of this point.
Let's try out seven,
the TypeScript is pretty well supported.
It's just you have to basically say
what the value starting out is.
And if you're gonna pipe it
through a bunch of operators,
which we'll talk about a little bit, what
the value at the end the actual TypeScript
support out of the box is fairly,
fairly solid.
But that would be we'd find that
under Advanced basics or advanced.
>> How does it know when
the event is completed?
Is there an underlying generator?
>> Under the hood, yeah, generates.
And so some of them don't complete.
If you are, in a little bit, we'll see the
idea of one that takes an event listener.
Well, an event listener never completes,
right?
Or there could be a interval which might
not complete unless you step in, and
tell it when it completes.
So a complete event, if we can kinda
whip up some code a little second
where we can see this, but
in the observable itself and
whatever of is creating one where it
might iterate through all the values.
There's a method under
the hood called complete.
There's a method called next.
When you call the next method
inside of the observable,
which looks a lot like a generator,
it will send the next value out
when you call complete that signifies
that this is now completed.
Some of them never complete some of them
will complete after a very brief amount of
time you can kind of control all of those
things and we'll look at how to take
observables that never complete and
make them complete so on and so forth.
But effectively if you're
familiar with generators,
you can think of next yield and
complete like return right?
So you can have number of values you get
if you're writing your own from scratch,
then you could theoretically
call these methods.
Otherwise, the of we'll call it at
the end of that list of values from we'll
call it either when it hits
the end of the iterable.
In this case, a generator or the array or
the promise resolves, there's usually
a thing that will trigger the completion
under the hood in the library itself.